# Hull Connector Template

> TL;DR: start with [Five seconds overview](#five-seconds-overview).

This is a scaffolding tool for creating and maintaining [Hull](http://hull.io/) connectors. It comes with base directory and file structure, default configuration and documentation files templates.

The complete boilerplate template is in [template](./template) directory.
During generation it's being run through [lodash template](https://lodash.com/docs#template) function to replace `<%= var %>` with values from configuration and copied to a selected working path.

## Installation

Install it as a global node package:

`npm i -g hull-connector-template`

Now you can use the `hull-connector-template` command to generate or update connector base code.

## Creating new connector

`hull-connector-template [working-path]`

You can execute this command over new directory which will be created, or run it inside an empty, already existing directory.

When run script will ask you couple of questions interactively to fill in templates with data.

## Updating existing connnector

When you have an existing connector already generated by `hull-connector-template` or not, but you want to make it compatible with the template see below two options how to peform the difference comparison:

**Simple update**

Running `hull-connector-template` over an existing connector directory will pick configuration values from `package.json` and `manifest.json` files, so you won't have to answer configuration questions again, unless you want to change any value.

It will also detect changes and conflicts over all files and will allow you to decide if overwrite file or keep old one.
This method works for files which are not modified on connector level, such as `.eslintrc`, `.babelrc` etc. since it allows to update only whole file.

**Advanded update**

For files which are usually updated on the connector level - such as `package.json`, `manifest.json` or JS source code files etc. - simple method of overwriting/not overwriting whole file would not work.
In this case using dedicated GUI diffing tool is the best option to decide line-by-line what to update.

To get the filesystem path to the `hull-connector-template` directory which should be used for this diff execute following command:

`hull-connector-template --path`

This will return something like this:

`/usr/local/lib/node_modules/hull-connector-template/template`

Then use it to run your diffing tool and compare template with actual connector code to peform more complex update:

`difftool  /usr/local/lib/node_modules/hull-connector-template/template ./connector-working-path`

## Connector development

This section describes how the further connector development process looks like in details. The boilerplate code comes with [README.md](./template/README.md) file which contains high level overview of this section and links here for full information.

This document also include some information about Hull's official development process which should allow 3rd party developers to contribute to our open-source projects.

### Five seconds overview

**Step #1**: generate new connector and install deps
```bash
$ hull-connector-template new-connector
# answer couple of questions from the generator
# and enter the newly generated connector directory
$ cd new-connector
# and install all dependencies
$ yarn
```

This will install both production and development dependencies of your base connector. The post install script will also build the front-end and back-end application with babeljs. But you don't need to worry about that. This is a pre-deployment script.

To learn more about the basic structure of the code, please go to [Repository structure](#repository-structure).

**Step #2**: now start the application
``` bash
# start the application
$ yarn start:dev
```
Your back-end server from `server` directory will be listening by default on 8082 port and it will be serving your front-end application from `src` directory. It's using babel-watch and hot reload component to not make you restart the whole thing everytime you do a change.

To learn more about the development scripts, please go to [Developing](#developing).

**Step #3**: code and verify!
```bash
# open the files in your favorite editor
# and start coding
$ edit server/server.js
# then perform whole test script to check
# if you didn't break anything
$ yarn test
# or if you want to be more specific,
# run only linting
$ yarn test:lint
# or unit tests only
$ yarn test:unit
```

To learn more about the testing scripts, please go to [Testing/Debugging](#testing-debugging).


**Steph #4**: deploy or contribute

If you want to deploy your connector on your own you can run it on production like this:

```bash
yarn start
```

or if you want to contribute to one of Hull's official connectors please fork our repository and issue a PR when work is done.

### Repository structure

This is a reference of how the common boilerplate code structure looks like:

```text
root/

  # development tools configuration
  .circleci/        - Configuration for CircleCI, it runs all tests on each build and enforce test coverage
  .babelrc          - the server side only babeljs configuration
  src/.babelrc      - the client side only babeljs configuration
  .eslintrc         - the server side eslintrc configuration
  src/.eslintrc.    - the client side eslint configuration which extends the one at root
  .prettierrc       - global prettier configuration, applied for the whole code base
  .jest.config.js   - test runnner configuration file
  webpack.config.js - 


  # Project definitions and docs
  manifest.json - The main file telling Hull how this connector works
  package.json  - npm project defition
  CHANGELOG.md  - each release changes are descibed here
  README.md     - technical overview of the connector

  # Code base
  assets/ - Images, Logos and User Guide (readme.md)
    readme.md - The User Guide which is served in the hull dashboard and linked from technical README.md
    docs/     - Images and other assets for User Guide

  flow-typed/ - Flow type definitions

  server/    - Server-side code for the connector
    actions/ - Route handlers for express application
    lib/     - Business logic of the connector
      sync-agent.js

  src/ - Front-end application which will be served by the backend application

  test/
    integration/ - Integration tests
      fixtures/  - Fixtures for notifications, payloads, etc.
      helper/    - Mocking helpers for tests
      scenarios/ - Expectations and inputs for various test scenarios
    unit/        - Unit tests
```

### Developing

To successfully build the sources on your machine, make sure that you have the correct version of node along with one package manager installed. See `engines` in [package.json](/package.json) for details.

### Testing/Debugging

Execute `yarn run test` or `npm run test` in the repository root to run all tests.

If you want to run the connector on your local machine, execute `yarn run start:dev` or `npm run start:dev` which will start a new node server.
Make sure to set the proper environment variables when running the code locally.

## Running and writing tests

There are two sets of tests, unit tests and integration tests. Please use unit tests for all features testing. The purpose of integration tests is just end-to-end validation of functionality on sample applications.

Integration tests for the `SyncAgent` are organized in scenarios. Please see the [Test Scenarios Guide](/test/integration/scenarios/README.md) for a detailed description of the scenarios.

## Branches

- We follow the [Git Flow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) model.
- [master](<%= repository_url %>/tree/master) has the _latest_ version released.
- [develop](<%= repository_url %>/tree/develop) has the code for the _next_ release.

### Building

Once you have the prerequisites installed, execute `yarn run build` or `npm run build` in the repository root to build the project locally.

